You've already learned about decision trees.
Decision trees are very useful predictive models that have a number of advantages,
including the facts that they are simple to understand and interpret,
require little data preparation,
can handle many datatypes and work well with large datasets.
A number of properties of tree-based methods are particularly appealing for
the types of analysis problems we encounter in financial trading contexts.
These include the following,
that there is no need to scale input data,
that the methods are robust to outliers,
missing values, and noisy data.
That unlike some other algorithms,
a higher degree of correlation between features doesn't affect predictions,
but does affect feature importance.
That the methods are hierarchical.
That they can learn the interactions between factors on their own, for example,
they can infer that a mean reversion factor may work
better at a time when average trading volume is relatively high,
and create a split accordingly.
So, tree-based methods in general are great.
However, the one type of tree-based method we've learned so far,
decision trees, has a number of limitations.
Decision trees are typically not competitive with
other supervised learning methods in terms of prediction accuracy.
They are also very prone to overfitting.
Approaches that involve producing multiple trees and combining their predictions,
often result in dramatic improvements in prediction accuracy,
at the expense of some loss in interpretability.
Combining many models together to yield a more powerful model is called ensembling.
The randomization introduced via some ensemble methods helps reduce overfitting,
which is among our core concerns when using machine learning in finance contexts.
In this lesson, we're going to talk about some types of ensembling methods.